# Matrix effect on the delivery efficacy of <i>Bifidobacterium animalis </i> subsp. <i> lactis</i> BB-12 on fecal microbiota, gut transit time and short-chain fatty acids in healthy, young adults.

Zhaoyong Ba, Yujin Lee, Huicui Meng, Penny M. Kris-Etherton, Connie J. Rogers, Zachary T. Lewis, Davis A. Mills, Emily J. Furumoto, M. Laura Rolon, Jennifer A. Flemming, Robert F. Roberts.

Abstract:
Probiotics are consumed in fermented dairy products or as capsules for their putative health benefits. However, little research has been done to evaluate the effects of the delivery matrix on the health benefits of probiotics in humans. To examine the effects of delivering Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12® (BB-12®) (Log10 10±0.5 CFU/day) via a yogurt smoothie versus  a capsule, we monitored the fecal microbiota, gut transit times (GTTs), and fecal excretion of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in healthy adults. In a randomized, partially blinded, 4-period, crossover study, 36 adults were recruited, and randomly assigned to four treatments: Control yogurt smoothie (YS); Yogurt smoothie with BB-12® added pre-fermentation (PRE); Yogurt smoothie with BB-12® added post-fermentation (POST) and Capsule containing BB-12® (CAP). Participants’ fecal microbiota was assessed using 16S rRNA sequencing, GTTs via SmartPill®, and fecal SCFAs by gas chromatography (GC) at baseline and after each intervention. Participants had significantly higher percentage of Streptococcus after consuming YS versus CAP (P = 0.01). Bifidobacterium-specific terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis revealed a significantly higher percentage of B. animalis after consuming PRE and POST when compared to baseline, YS, CAP, and final washout (P < 0.0001). The predominant SCFAs were negatively correlated with GTTs. Consumption of BB-12® delivered in a yogurt smoothie or capsule did not significantly alter the composition of the gut microbiota, GTTs, or fecal SCFA concentration of the study cohort. However, daily consumption of BB-12® in yogurt smoothie may result in higher relative abundance of B. animalis in healthy adults.

Publication doi: https://doi.org/10.1128/mSphere.00084-21

This repository contains metadata table and code used for data analyses. Sequence data is available on NCBI SRA under BioProject PRJNA739252.
